# Predicting Rental Prices in NYC
For my capstone project I built a tool that accurately predicts rental prices and trending neighborhoods in NYC.

## Problem Statement
Since the rock-bottom rent prices during the highest of COVID pandemic, the rental prices in NYC  have risen on average 33%, with some lease renewals increasing by 100% . In this scenario, predicting rental prices across the neighborhoods is a challenge.  If you are a current landlord with a vacancy, how do you determine the current property value? To answer these questions, I used the StreetEasy website that contains information about rental and sales in NYC, with the goal of estimating what features are more important in influencing rental prices in the city as well as developing a tool to accurately predict baseline rental prices for the real estate market. 

## Project
To be able to accurately predict NYC rental prices, I used the StreetEasy website, a leading local real estate marketplace providing market data. Instead of using their data dashboard that only contains mean values of the rental prices, I scraped the StreetEasy website to collect all possible features for each listed apartment. The collection of the data was done in a two steps process, first basic information about the listings were extracted including the direct link to the apartment, address, neighborhood and  number of bedrooms, bathroom and overall size. In a second step, I went over all individual apartments websites to gather each of the amenities listed, including distance to the subways, school districts, parks or playgrounds around the neighborhood among others properties. The full database included ~12k listings from all different neighborhoods in NYC with ~250 features in total. I performed some data exploration, custom transformers to clean the data and feature engineering. 
The predictions are made using a Random Forest Regressor. The hyperparameters were chosen using Cross-Validation by minimizing the mean squared error on the validation data. The final model achieved an r-square value of ~0.7.  Once the model was saved, I created a user interface web app - provided by Streamlit - that allows real estate investors and landlords the possibility of input their listing characteristics and create a baseline prediction for the rental prices. The web app also shows some information about the datasets used as well as including the performance of the model and feature importance. 

## Web app
To run the web app locally, in the terminal, go to the folder `Streamlit_Prediction_App` and run `Rent_prediction.py` 
